---
layout: post
title:  "Yogi B // AM Yoga"
date:   2015-01-21
tags: reflection
image: http://placehold.it/800x200
---
Change. It’s inevitable, but so hard for so many.

I started a new position within my same company towards the end of November. With my change in job I experienced a change in schedule and with that, a change in when I was able to practice yoga. For quite a few months I’d been pretty comfortable with an after work yoga routine that I loved. I fell in love with specific classes and instructors, and really felt my practice deepen.

I’m a creature of habit and knew that if I didn’t consistently make it to class right after work, my practice would become sporadic at best. To counter this, I started dragging myself out of bed at 5:15 in the morning {although realistically it’s probably closer to 5:30 – I’m a terrible snoozer}. I love the flexibility it gives me not only with work, but with activities happening right after work {ahem, happy hour}. I don’t have any excuse to skip, and for the last few weeks have been impressed with myself for cracking these eyelids open so early in the morning.

Let’s have some bits of honesty though regarding my expectations for this AM yoga shift:

1. It doesn’t feel as good as I thought it would
When I used to go right after work, my energy level was much higher. I was much looser, more willing to work hard and focus. Truthfully, I was expecting to be tired. I haven’t quite acclimatized to waking up this early but I was hoping to feel a little more refreshed. My neck especially is significantly tighter and it seems to take me much longer to ease into the practice. And yet, the body changes most in those moments of discomfort, so patience, patience, patience.

2. I expected the zen to accompany me to work
This is probably something I have to work just as hard at as I do with the physical side. As great as my body feels afterwards, it’s like the fire burns out by the time I roll up to work.

3. I haven’t seen the change I expect
I used to take a mix of 1.5 and 2 classes. Now, the only class available at 6am at my studio is Power 2. It’s challenging, and I was hoping it would spring me into progressing to new levels. I literally have seen no change and in fact feel like I’ve fallen backwards a little bit. Here’s the thing though. It’s only been a few weeks and I’ve significantly changed the time and pace of my practices. So I guess I have to cut myself a little slack. But it’s still frustrating.

Change is tough. It’s oftentimes much later that we recognize the benefits. In these new classes I’ve met some amazingly genuine ladies, and the instructors possess a perfect balance between ass-kicking and motivation. I’m hoping that by acknowledging the three bits of honesty above, I’ve made the first step towards accepting and working with {rather than against} the change I’ve welcomed into my life.

